-: Welcome back.
So we are in our GitHub repo.
So let's get into our EKS storage with RDS database section
which is zero six section.
Okay? So the step one introduction just now
we have completed, which is nothing
but what are the problems with myas skill port
and then EBS CSA
and how are we going to solve them with AWS RDS database?
So now we need to review the VPC
which is created as part of our EKS cluster.
The reason for that is
because inside that VPC in the private subject
we are going to create our respected RDS database.
Okay? So let's go to EC two
and let's go here and from go to VPC.
And if you see we have two VPCs available
one should be default and then one created
as part of our EKS CTL EKS demo one VPC.
So now as part of this VPC
it might have already created the subnets, right?
So if you see here, so these are the subnets it has created.
Okay? So it has created the two private subnets in one is
in US east one year and then one is in US East one B.
So we are going to create the RDS database
in these private subnets.
Okay, So let's go ahead and then create them now.
So where is this?
Yeah, so we have reviewed and then understood that
as part of this cluster it created four subnets two private
and then two public.
And our cluster notes means like our easy to
worker notes are currently running in public subnets
and the RDS database we are creating in the private subnet.
So let's create a DB security group
for us as a prerequisite one
which we'll leverage when creating the security group.
So let me go to EC two here
and I will go to security groups, right?
And I'll create a security group.
And the name of the security group is this.
And I can also copy this and I'll paste it.
Allow access for RDS database on port 3 3 0 6
and the VPCs EKS CTL EKS demo one cluster VPC.
Okay? And I'm going to add the inbound rule saying
that myas skill, right?
So I'm going to allow access for myas skill 3 3 0 6
from anywhere even as it is in private subnet.
Ideally we really don't need to worry.
So even if you say access from anywhere, okay
so I'll create the security group and this is completed.
So the next step is to prerequisite two
create a DB subnet group in RDS, right?
So let's go to RDS service, so search
for RDS here and select the RDS national database Service.
And once it is open
so we are going to create a DB subnet group
okay with us east one year and then one B.
So we'll go here and then you can see
in the left navigation, you can see the subnet groups here.
So I'm going to create a subnet group like this
and we'll also have description, EKS, RDS db subnet group
choose vpc.
VPC is our eks, ctl EKS demo one.
And availability zones we are going to use one year
and then one B so that whatever the audio's database it
gets created can be available in those locations and
in one year.
And then one B, what are our private things, right?
Private subnets we need to select now.
So let's go to VPC and identify which are our private subnet
things, okay?
So we have four here.
Let's go here and go to subnets and prove subnet this one.
So it is 64 dot 0 slash 19.
So that is one.
So I'll select a 64 dot 0.
Okay? So that is one.
And in one B it is going to be 96 dot 0 slash 19.
Okay? So I'm going to select 96, okay?
So 64 and 96 are private subnets here.
So in our DB subnet group we created that and then
we are going to create it.
Okay? So now our DB subnet group got created.
So we are going to create the RDS database.
Okay? So let's go back here and then go to databases
and create a database, right?
And we are going to create a standard create.
So that's what we have selected here.
And the engine is going to be myas skill
And it is going to be a
myas skill communication and the version
whatever it is populated automatically I'm using it, okay?
So we really don't need to worry
about what version it populates here.
Even in future when you see it
it might be 5 7, 2, 2 or five eight.
Our application is going to work everywhere.
Okay? So now the next thing is we are going to
select free tier.
Okay? So if you use production
you'll have the high availability
and fast consistent performance.
And if it is free tier, you are going to use a single
nor far our RDS database testing.
So we are going to use free tier for now
and the DB instance identifier, okay
so we are going to say user MGMT db.
So that is what we are going to use the name.
So this name, whatever you want, you can put it.
So, and the master username we are going to use is DB admin.
Okay? So now the DB admin will be my master
username to connect to it.
So we also need to update our user management
deployment manifest there.
We'll do it in our next steps.
Earlier we have given
whenever we have a myas skill pod running
inside EKS cluster, we have user there, root user there.
So now we need to update that root user to
DB admin and password, we are going to use that same one
which is nothing, but we are going to use DB password one.
One, Okay, so what is this?
Why it is showing?
So my safari browser auto generated something here
I'm not going to use that.
I'll say don't use and I will use DB password one, one.
So whatever we have generated
as a Kubernetes secret, right?
So the same thing I'm going to use.
So DB password one, one.
Good. So now instance size
I'm going to leave it as T two micro one, CPU one GB.
That should be fine for us.
And the general purpose storage.
And then all these things, 20 GB.
I'm going to leave these things as is here
and we are going to say availability and durability
we are going to leave it as is here, okay?
So if you want the once
if we would've selected the production here
then obviously would've got the automatic
this option would have been enabled here.
And then multi asay deployment we have done.
But this is for our testing purpose.
We really don't need to worry about these things.
Okay, so now what in vpc we are going to say eks, CT L vpc
which we want to create this.
And inside that vpc, this is the DB subnet group.
We have selected eks, RDS DB subnet group
and we are creating in the private subnet
we really don't need to worry
about publicly accessible default is no
and choose an existing security group as a prerequisite one.
We have created
that VPC security group means like DB security group.
So let's go ahead and then select that.
So which is nothing but E eks
RDS db sg, okay, so what happened?
Remove the default one.
We only need eks RDS DB sg.
So that is selected here.
And then default one, we have remote and availability zone.
I wanted to be created in US east one year
and database port, I'm going to use 33 0 6, okay?
So I'm going to use the password authentication
which is nothing but DV password 11
whatever we have created.
Okay? So these are additional database options
if you want to use, so initial database
whatever you want to create.
So I can directly say user MGMT to DB schema
IT need to get created here and all these things.
So let's go here.
And I really didn't worry much about other stuff here, but
if you want the initial database, you can say user MGMT db.
So this schema is required for us to automatically
create this schema will help us to connect to this.
It means like whenever our user management
application spring boot application starts
it expects this database schema available for us.
Okay? So user MGMT db, you can directly give it here
if you want to, or you can leave it as is and then move on.
And then I have created one more step for us.
So that is an interesting step.
Okay? So the reason I created that way is
from our Kubernetes cube ct, I should be able to connect
to the RDS database and then run the commands
for myas skill because it is in private subnet
you cannot connect via internet or from your desktop, right?
But from our Kubernetes cluster, using Cube ctl
you'll be able to connect.
So to ex to use this step and then create the
user M GMT schema from here
ideally not using this configuration option to
create a initial database name, so just for our learning.
And then in future, if you have any issues to connect
to the database, RDS database
then you need to know the way, how you need to
connect it when it is in the private subnet, right?
So for that purpose, I am not initializing
or not creating a initial database user mgmt
which is required by our user management microservice.
So we will leave it empty and then we'll create
at this respective to step four so far.
Now we'll move on and then create the database, right?
So now if you want this password to be saved here
in my, this one, not now.
Okay? So I really don't care.
So it'll take close to 10 minutes
or something to create this database.
So I will pause the video
and then our database is available now.
So if you click on this user MGMT db
so you'll find the endpoint here.
So this is the endpoint we are going to configure
in our external name service so that our workloads running
on Kubernetes cluster will be able to connect
to this RDS database.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.